# Fraudulent Job Detection
By: Imani Thompson
# Overview
This project analyses which job opening features Indeed should consider when determining whether or not they have a fraudulent job listed. Descriptive analysis of job posting predictions shows that job descriptions and job requirements together have a higher potential of identifying fraudulent activity. This was determine by the final model which had a 97% accuracy score. Natural language processing techniques were used on this binary classification model. Indeed can use these findings to get rid of fraudulent jobs on their website or give vistor direct access to my website created to predict the status.
# Business Understanding
My Stakeholder is Indeed, a worldwide employmeny website, that has thousands of job postings. An issue that they are encountering is the amount of fraudulent job postings. I was hired by this company to create a model to determine the amount of fraudulent job postings on their website. My predictions are important from a business prospective because I will be analysing actual data to get my answer and not just taking educated guesses. Even though I will not be modeling with Indeed data, it will still be useful to them because it uses the same concept. Determining whether or not a job opening is fruadulent is considered a binary classification, therefore it will require a binary classification model. Since job postings consist of a good bit of text I will be using natural language processing to model with text.
# Data Understanding
The data I used for my analyse is from kaggle. This dataset was made in 2020 and it consist of 18,000 rows which are individual job postings. This dataset has both textual information and meta-information about the jobs. Overall this dataset is related to the data analysis questions because it holds all the necessary information to determine what job postings are legit. The target varible within this dataset is the fraudlent column. Other variables included in this dataset are job job title, location, department, salary range, benefits, etc. The varibles that I will focus on are the descriptions and requirements. These two variables are objects and include missing values.
# Methods
Since my main focus concerning this datatset is the job description and requiremnts, I am going to ignore all other columns. The columns decription and requirements have missing values so I dropped all of them. I also made a new column called words that is a combination of both description and requirements.
# Modeling
To arrive at an intial approach, I'm going to analysis my data by first conducting a train test split for each model. Once I have split the data, I will use my doc_preparer function to tokenize the text. After the text is clean I will run a second train test split on the tokenized text so that we are able to build a model. Since this is a binary classification I will be using multinomial naive bayes to build models. I will also be using natural language processing since dealing with textual information. This Multinomial naive bayes final model using both job description and requirements has a accuracy score of 97.2%. This model is 2% better than the baseline model. There is a high true negative value like i wanted, higher than both other models. The false positive and false negative values are not too bad.
# Conclusion
I would recommend that Indeed focus on looking more into both the description and requirements together for a higher chance of determining whether it is fraudulent or not. I would also recommend them to give their viewers direct access to my website that I created to make predictions based on both description and requirements. If a viewer is feeling suspicous about a job all they have to do it click a link that takes them directly to my website and paste in their text. A reason why my model has a possibility of not solving the problem everytime is because it is only 97% accurate which leaves 3% of the time being inaccurate. Future plans that I could improve is cleaning the text more, this process is never ending and adjustments can always be made. I would also like to increase true positives, which in this case is if the model predict an opening is fraulent and it is correct.
